Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Mystery, Thriller
film from 2009, titled Exam.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Eight candidates for a top job at a mysterious
company are gathered in a windowless room
with two rows of desks.
They have passed previous requirements not
mentioned in the film.
They each choose a seat and upon each desk
is a piece of paper that identifies them as
"Candidate 1", "Candidate 2", etc.
The invigilator arrives and sets forth the
rules for the test.
The test consists of answering one question
and that there is only one answer.
Inside the room, there will be no laws other
than what the company permits, as such.
The candidates cannot try to communicate with
the invigilator himself nor the guard.
They cannot spoil the paper, and they cannot
leave the room for any reason.
If they break any of the rules, they will
be disqualified.
The invigilator asks the candidates whether
they have any questions.
He sets the clock at 80 minutes and leaves
the room.
Once alone, the candidates turn their paper
over and find nothing written on the back.
They look at each other in confusion, and
one of the candidates starts writing, "I believe
I deserve..."
The guard throws her out of the room because
she has written on her paper, spoiling it.
A young white man starts talking and convinces
everyone to work together until they find
what the question is.
Arguing that for a job this elite, the answer
can’t be simple.
It takes teamwork.
He also gives insulting names to the candidates
according to their physical appearance, Black.
White.
Brown.
Blonde.
Brunette.
Dark.
Deaf
Then White thinks, what else hasn’t the
invigilator forbidden them to do.
He stands up.
Guard only acts when the rules are broken.
Thus they are sure now that things unspoken
by the invigilator are all allowed.
At first, they try to read a hidden message
in the papers by placing them in front of
a light.
That doesn’t reveal anything on the paper.
When they break the lights that surround the
room, emergency lights come on.
When they carefully break the emergency tubes,
they find infrared light.
None of this helps them to see anything on
the paper.
They further discover that neither one will
be disqualified if a candidate spoils another
candidate's paper.
When Dark tries to tell that they are probably
missing something obvious, White dismisses
her instantly.
They try licking the paper.
White urinates on his but finds nothing.
White picks on Deaf who speaks only French.
Deaf displays symptoms of a mental or nervous
disorder.
He says in French that they only have to look
at the papers while he tries to re-order some
small pieces of glass on top of the paper.
They discover that Brown is a professional
gambler, and he suggests it’s a game, that
the board of directors is hidden on the other
side of the wall betting on who'll win.
Dark is a psychoanalyst who seems to be the
only one who has some information about the
company, the products it sells, its expansion,
etc.
Still, none of the other candidates could
find any info on the company despite doing
some research.
Dark tells them that the company they all
applied to, worst job position beats any best
job position in the world.
It’s a company that expanded on some kind
of pandemic outbreak.
They found the suppressants for the infection.
CEO of this company is considered one of the
most influential people in the world.
White takes charge of the group as a de-facto
leader.
Brunette discovers they can touch the guard
as long as they don't talk to him.
She finds a lighter in one of his pockets.
She wants to set off the fire alarms because
it may produce something other than water,
revealing a photograph that shows the question.
She jumps onto a table but still cannot reach
the sprinkler.
White offers her a paper, and after succeeding,
she discovers that White gave her her own
paper, so she is disqualified and escorted
out of the room.
Black walks towards White furiously, saying,
“I should punch your lights out.”
The room goes dark, Brown says, “lights
up.” and the light goes on.
They discover its voice-activated.
White bullies Deaf into tearing the paper
and eating it.
After following his instructions, Deaf crawls
away.
The guard puts Deaf out, dropping his glasses
inside the room.
White deceived them by saying the group could
collaborate until they guessed, but after
tricking Brunette into being disqualified,
each one began to mistrust the others.
As the tension builds to greater levels, Black
punches White knocking him out, and ends up
tied to a chair by Black and Brown.
White starts convulsing and is unable to find
his medication, which is required every hour.
Then they understand that White is infected.
Dark suggests that White is probably a spy
for the company.
Brown points out that Dark knows an awful
lot about a company, and everyone starts to
suspect Dark’s the spy within the company
and is working for them, and they want to
get the question out from her with torture.
When Brown is going to torture her by cutting
her with a piece of paper, they discover that
she is an employee at this establishment.
Also that she has self-hurt on one of her
thighs before, Brown cuts her tight.
Next would be her eye.
She still yells that she doesn’t know anything,
and Brown trusts her.
White is getting worse, and while everyone
else is trying to decide the best way to help,
Dark discovers that Brown stole White's pill
and stuck it under his desk with a piece of
chewing gum.
Brown still disagrees about giving White the
drug and slaps it out of her hand.
It falls down a water drain.
Dark turns toward the blank screen and pleads
for Whites’ life and is thereby disqualified.
Blonde takes the pill out with her hair clip
and forces the medicine into White's mouth,
and he gets well almost immediately, they
free him.
He points out that the clock is running low,
and there are four left.
White believes only one can win.
He and Black begin arguing and race to get
the guard's gun.
After pummeling White to the wall, Black takes
the gun and, after being provoked, allegedly
shoots white, but they discover the gun didn't
actually fire.
They start to fight.
White stabs Black with a pencil and gains
possession of the firearm, and tries to shoot
Black, but the gun doesn't shoot once again.
White figures out that the guard may only
shoot the gun, so he puts the gun into the
guard's hand.
White threatens everybody that they must leave
or be killed.
Brown leaves valuing his life.
Blonde leaves and shouts "lights out" to allow
Black to win.
In the dark, White kills Black.
Blonde has not entirely left the room.
One of her feet remains partially in the room.
White sees this and wants to shoot her, then
suddenly the clock starts blaring, signaling
that the time has run out.
White shouts to the other side of the wall
that he's won.
Guard puts his hand on Whites’ shoulder
and shows him there is still time left.
He loses because Deaf has adjusted the clock
so that the 80-minute time slot has not yet
expired.
He tries to commit suicide.
He fails because, as recalled, the gun will
only work in the guards’ hands.
The glass wall is turned on, and White can
see the silhouette of the invigilator.
He looks crushed and realizes that it has
all been futile.
The guard disqualifies him by leading him
out.
Blonde fully enters the room again and picks
up her paper.
She fumbles with the pieces of glass and Deaf's
glasses and reads "Question 1" written on
the paper’s watermark in tiny print.
She offers it to the Deaf, who returns to
the room, and she says "no,” answering the
question put forth, "Are there any questions?".
She is offered the job.
She is explained that Deaf is the CEO of the
company.
He is a troubled but genius scientist who
has discovered a pill to heal wounds incredibly
fast.
Blonde says that she may not accept the job.
When the invigilator points to why she went
through all that trouble if she didn't want
the position, she points to Black lying on
the floor and says it's unacceptable.
The invigilator asks, "Who told you that he's
dead?".
She approaches Black and sees that the bullet
wound is almost healed.
The invigilator says that they put the fast-healing
pill inside the bullet.
They own the formula for the medicine, which
also healed Black’s illness, but it can
only be manufactured in minimal quantities.
The new director needed to have sympathy alongside
ambition, intelligence, drive, and hard work.
Blonde accepts the job right away.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.